Sylabus
========

##Quantitative Methods for Business


**Course Number: MGMT 4100**

**Credit Hours: 4**

**Semester/Year: Fall 2020**

**RPILMS:** <https://lms.rpi.edu/>

**Prerequisites:** (Undergraduate level MGMT 2100 Minimum Grade of D or
Undergraduate level MGMT 2150 Minimum Grade of D or Undergraduate level
ENGR 2600 Minimum Grade of D) or Undergraduate level MGMT 2510 Minimum
Grade of D

**Website:** [http://qm.analyticsdojo.com](http://qm.analyticsdojo.com/)

***INSTRUCTOR (REQUIRED)***

**Instructor Name:** Jason Kuruzovich **Office Location:** Pitt. 4^th^
Floor (Sev. Center)

**Tel. No.:** 518-698-9910 **Email Address: kuruzj\@rpi.edu**

**Office Hours:**Tuesday 2:00 PM -- 4:00 PM

COURSE DESCRIPTION:
-------------------

This course is designed to provide the student with an understanding of
the quantitative methodology for the management of both services and
manufacturing. The course will help solve business problems with
quantitative techniques and highlight the advantages that the
quantitative analysis can provide for the organization.

**REQUIRED TEXT(S):**

**Introduction to Management Science, 13th Edition**

Taylor

Pearson \| **ISBN:** 9780134730660

STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES *(REQUIRED)*
--------------------------------------

This course will enable participants to develop a general understanding
of the management science/operations research approach to decision
making. Participants will realize that quantitative applications begin
with a problem situation and understand that many managerial situations
have quantitative considerations that are important in the decision
making process. Students will (1) obtain an understanding to
quantitative techniques and their use in practice; (2) understand
management science models in terms of what they are and why they are
useful; and (3) understand the use of computer software packages such as
Microsoft Excel in applying quantitative methods to decision making.

COURSE ASSESSMENT MEASURES
--------------------------

Homework Assignments:

There will be frequent homework assignments, listed on the course
website. These assignments are intended for you to become more familiar
with the concepts that are covered in lectures and in the text. Some of
these exercises will require the use of computer and computer packages
like Excel Solver. You may work with others; however, all work submitted
should be your own.

Check the course website for delivery dates and submit the files to the
LMS. On-paper/hard-copy submissions and email submissions will NOT be
accepted. Late homework will NOT be accepted.

[Term Paper:]{.underline}

You are expected to investigate topics covered in class being utilized
in real settings. You will read and report on different articles that
are published within the last 10 years (2010-2020) and that relates to
one or more topics in the class. The term paper will help students learn
to use multiple resources (e.g. library holdings, news agencies,
Internet, etc.). Students in class are expected to form groups of four
members each.

When searching for an article, follow these guidelines: You will need to
present and report on how real companies do better by using the
techniques we learned in class. So, in the article you find, there needs
to be a real firm, a real problem, a proposed solution within the
boundaries of the class topics, use of these tools, and the realized
results of the implementation.

You will find the article and submit the "pdf" of this article using the
designated LMS assignment tab. The due date for the term paper selection
can be found on the course calendar (by the beginning of the class).

Each group will present a summary of the selected paper, how it relates
to our topics, why you find it interesting, and what you have learned.
Check the course calendar for the date which presentations are scheduled
for. All group members are expected to participate in presentation.

Each group is also expected to prepare a written report on the selected
paper. The report, excluding the references, should be no less than 1
page and no more than 2 pages in length (Times New Roman, 12-point font
size, single spaced), and should include the appropriate references.
Submit the "pdf" of your final report using the designated LMS
assignment tab. The due date for the report is available on the course
calendar.

Exams:

There will be two in-class exams -- see the course calendar (on the last
page) for the dates. Each test will primarily emphasize the material
covered during the preceding weeks. The tests are all closed-book and
closed-note exams. Tests are individual work; students cannot
collaborate in any way. Copying, communicating or using any materials
during an exam is cheating.

**GRADING CRITERIA**

The course is structured to provide students with multiple opportunities
to demonstrate their understanding of the course concepts and contents.
Final grade in the course will depend on performance in the following
components.

Midterm 25%

Final  25%

Homework  30%

Term Paper Report  20%

**TOTAL 100%**

The following is a list of lowest total points necessary in order to
obtain the corresponding letter grade. I reserve the right to adjust
those cut-off points at the end of semester -- if any adjustments are
made, those will be in favor of students.

COVID-19 Policies
-----------------

RPI is committed to the health and safety of all students. RPI will
continue to monitor any new developments with COVID-19 and determine a
course of action that will uphold the well-being of students while
maintaining a quality educational experience.

Masks/Shields: We know from existing data that wearing a mask in public
can help prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the community. Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute has determined that everyone will be required to
wear a face mask in all public spaces, including classrooms. You MUST
wear a mask appropriately (i.e., covering both your mouth and nose) in
the building if you are attending class in person. Masks have been
provided for students, instructors, and staff, and everyone is expected
to wear one. Students who choose not to wear a mask may not attend class
in person. This is to protect their health and safety as well as the
health and safety of their classmates, instructor, and the university
community. Anyone attending class in person without a mask will be asked
to put one on or leave.

Instructors will end class if anyone present refuses to appropriately
wear a mask for the duration of class. Students who refuse to wear masks
appropriately or adhere to other stated requirements may face
disciplinary action for Code of Conduct violations. Student who violate
not wearing a mask will be reported to the Dean of Students and will be
requested to leave a classroom of building and return to their living
quarters.  The Dean of Students will provide the appropriate sanctions
for the students per the code of conduct signed by the students. 

Traffic Flow and Social Distancing: Students and faculty will respect
the need for social distancing to the degree possible by the setting.
Please maintain six feet of space while walking into and out of classes
and enter and exiting the building.

Faculty and students will move in and out of the classroom as per the
appropriate instructions of the faculty/administration. They are
expected to follow printed traffic flow statements posted in all rooms
and buildings.  

In-Class Seating: Faculty are asked to assure that students sit in the
appropriate designated seating in the classroom, using social
distancing.  Students are not allow to move furniture or sit in seats
not designated by the Institute. 

Cleaning of Spaces: Students are encouraged to clean the surfaces of the
chairs/tables/desks they occupy before they sit down and as they prepare
to leave. Faculty should advise students clean with wipes or cloths
their own personal before and after class.   

Student Health: On a case-by-case basis, students may consult with
Student Disability Resources for accommodations if they cannot wear a
mask. Students requiring such accommodations may be advised to take
advantage of and participate in the course through remote learning.

Students who are experiencing COVID-19 related symptoms should not
attend class in person and are encouraged to contact a health care
provider. Students who are ill, under quarantine for COVID-19, or
suspect they are ill will report that to Student Life. Student Life will
verify and notify all faculty who have that student. Once notification
is made, all faculty will make every reasonable effort to accommodate
the student's absence and will communicate that accommodation directly
to the student. Failure to make an appropriate accommodation for a
verified or reasonably suspected case of illness may be appealable under
the student grade appeal process. Students who need to report an illness
should contact Office of the Dean of Student. They may also call: 
518-276-6266.

Refusal: Refusal to comply with any appropriate request will be treated
as would any classroom disruption (request to change the behavior;
request to leave the class; dismissal of the class and referral to
Student Affairs.) 

ACADEMIC INTEGRITY
------------------

Student-teacher relationships are built on trust. For example, students
must trust that teachers have made appropriate decisions about the
structure and content of the courses they teach, and teachers must trust
that the assignments that students turn in are their own. Acts that
violate this trust undermine the educational process.

The Rensselaer Handbook of Student Rights and Responsibilities and the
Graduate Student Supplement (For 6000 level and above courses) define
various forms of Academic Dishonesty and you should make yourself
familiar with these. In this class, all assignments that are turned in
for a grade must represent the student's own work. In cases where help
was received, or teamwork was allowed, a notation on the assignment
should indicate your collaboration. Submission of any assignment that is
in violation of this policy will result in (1) an academic (grade)
penalty and (2) reporting to Lally's Associate Dean of Academic Affairs
and either the Dean of Students (for Undergraduates) or the Dean of
Graduate Education (for Graduate students).

**In this course, the academic penalty for a first offense is *[a grade
of zero for the corresponding assignment AND one letter grade reduction
at the end of semester (e.g., A- dropping to B+, D dropping to
F)]{.underline}.* A second offense will result in failure of the course
as noted in Lally's Three Strikes Policy.**

If you have any questions concerning this policy before submitting an
assignment, please ask for clarification.

ACADEMIC ACCOMMODATIONS
-----------------------


Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute strives to make all learning experiences as accessible as possible. If you anticipate or experience academic barriers based on a disability, please let me know immediately so that we can discuss your options.  

To establish reasonable accommodations, please register with The Office of Disability Services for Students ([mailto:dss\@rpi.edu](mailto:dss@rpi.edu); 518-276-8197; 4226 Academy Hall).  After registration, make arrangements with me as soon as possible to discuss your accommodations so that they may be implemented in a timely fashion."


COURSE CALENDAR
---------------

See the [Schedule tab](./schedule.md) for the course schedule.
